In this video, I want to talk about some of the built in functions that come with Python. So it turns
out that Python has quite a few functions built in.
You can see I've got my browser open, and the link to this page is in the resources section of this video.
So refer to that if you need to.
And here is an alphabetical list of the built in functions that come with Python.
So let me just scroll down, and put them all on screen. So we'll use most of these functions at various
points in the course.
Now we've already seen enumerate a few videos ago, and we've used id, input, int and len in earlier sections
of the course.
And you should recognize a few more as well.
We've used min and max to get the smallest and largest values from an iterable.
We printed the largest and smallest values in the odd and even lists, in our examples. And the print
function should be very familiar by now.
There's more I want to say about print later, because it's more versatile than what we've seen so far.
And the last two functions that we've used in this table are str and sum. Sum adds up all the values in an
iterable, and returns the total.
And if you recall, I used that in the last section when we extracted values from the input, and calculated
the total. And we used str in the buy_computer program.
So if I switch over to my browser now - sorry to my IDE - and open up our buy_computer.py program
you can see it was used on line 11.
That's str.
So the code puts the list of numbers that correspond to the menu options. But because the customer's input
will be a string, we want the list to also contain strings. That lets us check if the customer's choice is
in the list that we're building.
So we convert the input values to strings, using the str function, on line 11 as you can see there.
So we'll be using some more of these functions as we work through this course.
So I'll just switch back to the browser now, to that table, to the list of built in functions.
I suggest you bookmark this page and refer back to it when you want to know what functions Python provides.
One question we get asked is "Do I have to memorize all these functions?".
The answer to that is no. It's quite likely that you'll never use some of them. compile, eval and exec, for example
are only useful if you're running a program to work with python source code. If you want to write your
own version of IDLE, for example, then those functions might be useful. Unless you're working with complex
numbers,
the complex function won't be of much use to you.
So there's really no point memorizing a load of stuff that you'll never use.
What we suggest you do is read through this page, to get a feel for what the functions do. But don't
try to memorize it all. In fact, don't even try to understand it all straight away. When you need one of
the functions, check back in here to see what it's called and how to use it. To give a quick example.
You might find that your program has to save lists of data, but you don't want to save data that's got
nothing in it.
You'd probably phrase that along the lines of "I need to say this list if it contains any data". Checking
in the table of built in functions, you'll see the 'any' function - up there at the top. Click on any in
the table there.
In this case you can see that any returns True if there are any items in the iterable that evaluate to True.
That's what you'd need, to decide whether to save your list or not.
We covered truthy values in the last section.
So Python contains a function that you can use, and you don't have to write your own code to test your
lists.
We'll be using any in a later section, as well as the function above it, all. Alright, so scrolling back
up to that table
the next function I want to look at, in the next video, is sorted.
See you in the next video.